---
layout: post
title: Getting Acclimated
---

When I first got matched with Dr. Waisome at the University of Florida, I was a bit skeptical about how my computer science background was going to contribute to my mentor's Civil Engineering background. But getting on campus and meeting Dr. Waisome and the members of her PRISEM lab, I immediately knew that this match was necessary. Touching down on campus, my first tasks were to get acclimated with the podcast from which we would be deriving data, "Modern Figures". As a Black woman from an HBCU with only one Black Woman professor on faculty, this podcast instilled the confidence I needed to continue working towards my graduate studies. 

With my technical background, I came into the project feeling unworthy since our research is more qualitative. But with the help of Dr. Waisome and the other members of the project, I was able to become more confident in my abilities to contribute to this project, and instead of focusing on my feelings of incompetency, I was able to focus on the content of the data I was analyzing. 

So far, this project has truly been a blessing. I've been able to hear from many Black Women professionals through the Modern Figures Podcast and connect with professors within the University of Florida's faculty to discuss further solutions to the lack of literature regarding Black Women in computing. I can't wait to see what else is in store for this summer!

---
layout: post
title: Thematic Analysis, who?
---

As we get into more of the "meat and potatoes" of the project, I have had the pleasure of learning about the fundamentals of research that will help strengthen our project. Over these few weeks, we have been focusing on literature reviews and thematic analysis. We are using MAXQDA to encode our findings of these analyses. Our process includes transcribing the podcast episodes, encoding the episodes based on themes we found in each one, and meeting with the team to see if our themes align. From there, we will configure a final batch of themes and move on to the next step of the process. 

"Modern Figures" is a profound podcast with a lot of information, and a lot of great guests. That being said, there had to be a process of narrowing down the episodes to ensure that there was precision with the themes. To narrow down the episodes, we first divided the episodes into categories based on the guests that appeared. Some of those categories included: Industry, Academic, Non-Technical, etc. From there, we transcribed the episodes using Rev, and our team personally went through each transcription to ensure accuracy. I'm so excited to continue with this project, and I can't wait to see the knowledge that this research brings into the realm of computing. 
