---
layout: post
title: Final Report
---
Date: August 10th, 2024

Introduction
Although technology is constantly evolving and becoming more inclusive, Black women and girls remain underrepresented in computing careers and educational pursuits. According to the 2021 Taulbee survey, Black African American students earned only 3.2% of Bachelor’s degrees in computer science (1). If we narrowed it down even more to focus strictly on Black women, we could see the large disparities in the computing world today. Being in an underrepresented group in the tech field, a lot of minoritized groups can empathize with each other on the daily discrimination and microaggressions that they face. We know what happens in those situations, Black women are undermined, forgotten, and put on the bottom of the totem pole. But what we don’t acknowledge are the measurable positives that the majority of Black women witness on their journey to their computing careers; this project explored the former globally, and the latter, for me  personally. 

Project Goals

The goal of this project is to “build the capacity for research collaborations by identifying the most salient topics missing from existing literature” (2). To ensure an arrival to the project goal, we will be using the podcast data, and audio scripts, while  conducting thematic analysis, so as to identify prevalent themes among the Black women interviewed.


My Work

As the project is still in the beginning stages, my work this summer centered around the  categorical and verificational. Our team first categorized all of the episodes of each season by the occupation of the Interviewee on the “Modern Figures Podcast”. Some categories included: “Current Graduate Student”, “Industry”, “Academic”, “NA” (the latter was relevant if they did not identify as a Black Woman”). This simple but critical step was completed to ensure that when we finalize the dataset, we have a good variety of Black women across all fields of computing. For this particular project, we wanted to focus on Black Women who were out of school and already charting a career path.

After categorizing was finalized, we derived a short list of episodes that would define our dataset. These episodes would then be transcribed (since the podcast is in auditory format). My next task was to ensure that the transcriptions of the episodes were accurate. We used an Artificial Intelligence Transcriptor called “Rev” to initially transcribe the episodes, and our team then went behind the AI to ensure those transcriptions were correct by listening to the episodes and going down the AI genre transcription, editing as we went if there were any errors. 

Nearing the end of summer and the internship, I was excited to begin the thematic analysis. Our thematic analysis included using the software “MAXQDA” where we would encode themes based on our findings in our transcriptions. This qualitative approach required meticulous analysis and attention to detail, and was done by me and other members on our team. 

Findings 

The thematic analysis phase, even in its infancy, did not disappoint.  Based on the episodes that I, personally have coded, many Black women contribute their success in the computing field to their drive and their commitment to ensuring that Black children have representation in the tech space. Some common themes that I found in the episodes that aided Black women in computing on their journey were: familial support, desire to represent, and mentorship. These common themes were expected throughout the  interviews and also verified that relational support is essential. Further, these early themes will most certainly set a benchmark that will contribute notably as we continue our review of interviews, interactions and network relationships.  

Conclusion

Coming from a technical background, my introduction to research being qualitative and education-focused at first proved to be a  somewhat difficult adjustment.. As a computer scientist, I am strictly typically focused on the concrete facts, and elemental data points of the matter, producing and measuring , while leaving the analysis and story-telling to the one “next to receive the baton.”  But being on this project this summer allowed me to discover the multiplicity of realms within the research sciences. As I become more acclimated with the world of academia, specifically pertaining to computer science, my observations have been that there aren't enough people focused on the research that focuses on representation. Black women are consistently underrepresented, and  overlooked. Given society’s technological advancements, and this country’s and world’s evolution into a more “colorful” people, we must ensure that the people creating and mastering these technologies, look like -  and experience life like - the people that will ultimately use them. This summer I was fortunate to be selected for a research project that took a step on the path toward ensuring this objective is met.
